probably the closest to the cadets.
And over a period of time, you know, they'd been maybe advisor for a couple of years, and they knew these cadets.
Some of them, you know, they'd known them since they were freshmen.
So that was the main counseling system that we had.
Was Malin one of the junior officers?
Malin Sutherland?
No.
Junior?
Was he back?
Well, Malin was the,
assistant to Jarvis, I think, for a while.
Then he was assistant to Dr. Sampson.
And then after that, he went over and started working with John Colas.
Okay.
So he was not?
No, he was never in the Trigon.
He came in a few years after I left.
This was an interim commandant for a year.
After Burton left and before General Darling came in, he was kind of the interim commandant.
Were there any of these counselors that you would, to whom you would single out as really being ABLE advisors?
Well, one of the best was Bill Faulkner.
Bill Faulkner.
F-A-U-L-K?
N-E-R, yeah.
His son just graduated as a senior over here.
He was killed, he retired from the Army or resigned from the Army.
He was an engineer captain and went to work as a
He was kind of a contractor building houses, and then he had to ship his donuts here in Bryan.
And he was a super, super guy.
But he was probably one of the smartest officers that I had during my five years over there.
You know, he was the kind of guy that if you wanted to get something done right and quick, you gave it to him.
And his oldest son just graduated this year with the highest honors, Kuna Sumlata.
And his other son I think will be a sophomore next year.
I think he'll be a sophomore next year.
So he had both of his sons, but he was killed almost several years ago.
All right, we're kind of summarizing now.
Looking back to whom do you want to give
greatest appreciation, gratitude?
Well, that's five years.
I think it would be shared with General Simpson and John Colas because I couldn't say enough good about either one of those guys.
They were tremendous.
And like I said, Simpson was, I was closest to him because I was, I was with him almost every day.
And he never, he backed me on everything I ever wanted to do.
Can you imagine anybody that we could design with a machine if we were godlike where we could have found anybody that would do the task better than either of them?
Oh no, no.
We were really, really blessed during that time.
Who else?
Anybody else?
Any staff members, secretaries?
Well, Don Johnson, he certainly was a great help because they've got about 25 people or at least over in the commandant's office now.
I don't know how many they have.
They've got full colonels and lieutenant colonels and, you know, all retired.
Then they've got secretaries and accountants.
And, of course, they have the housing under them and they have the MPC.
I never had the housing under me, but I worked very closely with those guys.
And, you know, they were almost under my control, but they weren't officially.
If they had about 25, how many did you have?
I had two.
Me and Don Johnson.
That was it.
And anything that was done, we had to do it.
Plus, like I said, a part-time grad assistant.
And we had a couple student workers, but, you know, they were runners.
They didn't help a whole lot.
As you got to the end of your time, what were the closing events?
How did they thank you?
What were the... Well, Burton was, had come in and I'd turned it over to him in August.
I was retiring on the 31st of August, 82, and so we had a, we didn't have a core review because, you know, this was the start of school.
So we didn't want those freshmen marching, but at least they taught them to stand at attention.
So we had a, the core was lined up on the drill field and that's where we had the, you know, my retirement ceremony.
And so, well, that May, was it known that that May was your last?
Oh, yeah.
It was announced sometime in the spring, I think, before school was out that, you know, I'd be retiring.
And what did you do to celebrate retirement?
Well, I was in, the day before I retired, I was out in Lubbock because my third daughter was having a baby.
And the baby was born the night of the 30th.
And we got in the car and we drove from Lubbock
back to College Station because we were having this ceremony the afternoon of the 31st.
Well General Simpson was having a fit because I wasn't in town.
No one could find me and I was up in Lubbock.
And so I got back about early that morning and then I got in bed and went to sleep and about
Eight o'clock the phone started ringing and it was General Simpson and somebody and said, well, he's asleep but he'll be there.
Don't worry, he'll make it.
So I did make it but it was an emotional event but I was so tired.
Sure.
I mean, I was just numb so it didn't get to me like it could have.
Ironically, the grandson that was born will be here next week.
to be a freshman in the Corps of Cadets.
So I always know how long I've been retired by his age.
And he turns 19 at the end of this month.
How good, how good.
All right, have we left any important topics out from those five years?
Oh, I can't, I really can't think of anything.
Pluses, minuses, people?
I can't.
It's kind of hard, you know, after I read this over.
There were no, no fires, no bombings, no.
Well, we had a bombing.
I mean, we had plenty of bombs in the court.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
No, but I mean, no.
And you know, I found out that VMI had the same problem.
And they were, there was a, out in the quadrangle, there was like a, some kind of little gazebo, and they blew that thing up one year.
And so I found out that things that go on here,
go on to those other military schools.
And then Pat Conway wrote two books about the Citadel.
One's called The Boo and the other's Lords of Discipline.
And reading that was almost reading like being the commandant at Texas A&M.
Some of the same things happened with them that had happened here.
So I could really relate to that book.
And I've always thought one of the problems that VMI has is just across the street, directly north.
Washington and Lee.
Washington and Lee, an entirely different kind of school.
And so here I could sit in my dorm or walk out and look at those guys and what they're doing.
for better or for worse, and they don't have, Washington League doesn't have any kind of the discipline.
It's a fine school, but it's very, very, very different.
Well, I took a group of cadets up to VMI, and that was an eye-opener for them.
We went to Washington, D.C., and stayed there at Fort Myer in a VOQ room.
And then we drove over to VMI and that was really an eye opener.
They thought they had it tough down here.
They didn't know what tough was.
And one thing I did, we didn't mention, I took the Ross Volunteers to Washington for Reagan's inauguration.
That was quite an experience.
Describe that.
Well, we flew up on the plane and I had several officers that were action officers.
I had like one transportation officer that got the buses lined up and transportation.
was billeting and another took supply because we had to take the rifles and all that and you had to put them in separate containers to put them aboard the aircraft.
Anyway, we went up and stayed at Bowling Air Force Base.
There was a Boy Scout troop hut there and so there was a major up there who was
and Aggie and was involved with the Boy Scouts and that's how we got to stay in the hut.
And so we had everyone take a bedroll.
And so each cadet took a bedroll and they slept on the floor there and we.
What was the weather like?
The weather wasn't bad when we got up there but then the day of the parade it was really cold.
I mean it was bitter cold.
And we marched in, you know, for Reagan.
Now where were you while they were marching?
Well, we had the buses down at the other end of the parade route, and I had an officer down there to, you know, make sure the buses didn't get away.
And so I was standing there when the parade started off, and I didn't know what I was going to do.
So I decided, well, I would march along with them, but I would march on the curb.
I wasn't out there where I could be seen.
I was marching along the curb where those police were.
Well, I had a clipboard.
And see, a lot of times if you have a clipboard, you can look important.
And so I had that clipboard, and I just marched along with the clipboard, and I was never stopped.
And I went up to the inauguration platform where Reagan and all those people were, and
You know, I didn't know whether I could go in front of that or not, and the guards were there and Secret Service and everybody, and I said, I'm with this group, and I just marched on and marched right underneath the stand where the President and all those people were, and marched right on down the street.
So I essentially marched in the parade, but I wasn't out where I could be seen.
And no problems?
No, no problems.
Oh, that's marvelous.
That's marvelous.
No, we took all of them.
You know, it was a pretty good clean-cut group of young men.
We took them up there and had no problem.
All right, looking back on those five years, is there a happiest moment?
Oh, there were a lot of happy moments, but I can't think of any, you know, anything that strikes me right now.
Anything in hindsight you wish you had done that you didn't?
I don't, I don't think so.
And again, play consultant.
And like the other day, any advice, counsel to the Corps leadership, commandants of the future?
I think they're doing, they're doing all they can do.
And you know, it looks like to me that the Corps is in pretty good shape.
And they've got a commandant now that, you know, really is an outstanding, outstanding general and outstanding officer.
And I wouldn't, I wouldn't attempt to give them any advice.
And so what feelings do you have about, in your heart about those years as a, as the commandant?
Oh, I'm proud that I, you know, of having been the commandant.
I think it was kind of the, you know,
It kind of capped off my military career.
I wouldn't trade for it.
It was wonderful.
That's quite worth it.